Also let's bring on board the management
of IC Lombard we have uh Mr gopal
balachandran CFO and cro at IC Lombard
General Insurance joining in with us
right now uh so you know good afternoon
and what I want to talk about is the
wholesale tilt in is something uh which
is a little concerning when we are
looking at it for some of your investors
what's your take on that and how do you
see this business uh in terms of growth
and risk and do you uh think higher
wholesale tilt may impact the claims
ratio
so if you if if you refer to the
commercial lines uh I think as I said at
this point of time from a commercial
line standpoint what we are seeing in
the market is couple of things one the
pricing regime is kind of uh uh largely
flattish or maybe to some extent there
is actually a reduction in price that
the market is experiencing and that's
the reason when at these times we tend
to take a slightly more guarded stance
in terms of our ability to kind of grow
that book and that's why I talked about
from an is lomard standpoint for q1 the
commercial lines have been largely in
line with the industry growth though in
some of the segments of commercial lines
we have been able to get to a market
leadership position as well but having
said that I think the key thing to watch
out for commercial lines as a category
is some of these catastrophic events led
losses for example there could be flood
losses that could happen across the
country etc etc but that's the nature of
the business that we are in uh I think
the key thing to watch out for is how
many cat events is the industry
experiencing and in general even within
that if you see from an ISL Lombard
standpoint relative to our market share
in each of these catastrophic events our
share of losses have been lower than the
natural market share that we have had as
a company and hence to that extent we
believe we have been kind of
reasonably uh res selecting the
portfolios quite
well all right Mr Bal this is also
joining in let's talk about your loss
ratio specifically in the motor segment
now you've indicated a lower competitive
intensity and that has led to an overall
fall in the loss ratio so do you
anticipate competitive intensity to stay
low for the forceable time frame because
some of the new players seem to be going
aggressive using technology and also
showing Healthy Growth on this metric so
what's your outlook when it comes to uh
your company's particular metric
again that's a great question if you
were to ask me but again when you when
you put this in the context of the
outcome that the industry is exhibiting
on motor as a category which is the
second largest in terms of revenues the
combined ratio for the industry even if
you look at the FI 24 numbers because
Industries numbers typically comes at a
quarters lag it is still elevated at
118% 118% running the book for the
industry combined ISU is very high and
that's the reason why in fact if you see
across many of the players who were very
aggressive in the earlier time cycle in
the last couple of years most of them
have started to kind of look at
moderating their growth numbers
particularly in the context of motor as
a category and hence the ability of
these players to continue to lose money
on combined at those levels We Believe
could be a bit challenging from a market
uh standpoint and that's a reason why
over the last I would say three quarters
Isis Lombard has actually been able to
kind of outgrow the market specifically
in the context of uh motor as a segment
going ahead I think that's something
again which we will to continue to kind
of look for as in to say that we would
watch for how the growth numbers are
playing out in terms of new vehicle
sales and the ability of us to continue
to risk select and pick up the right
risk segments is something that Isis
Lombard will be kind of very very
closely watching
for right you know what also investors
are expecting everyone is watching out
for the budget to tomorrow so some of
them are speculating in terms of some
positive announcements that could come
in tax relief in the form of increasing
limit for health insurance segment what
is your take and expectations from
tomorrow's
budget the way I would kind of put forth
this uh I think we are just possibly
slightly maybe less than 24 hours away
in terms of the announcement and
honestly one would obviously wait for
the actual announcements to play out but
honestly I think as I said two factors I
think in General I think the regulatory
environment and the thought process from
a government standpoint is also to kind
of make insurance as as a destination
wherein it can attract a lot more
stakeholders to come and participate in
given the levels of penetration that
this uh uh sector exhibits and hence any
such announcements which will further
fuel The increased opportunity for uh
attraction of capital into the sector it
will be a great welcome and equally if
there are announcements that will help
in improving uh penetration uh of the
overall Market those are some things
that we will be very very closely
watching for but as I said honestly
we'll wait for the actual announcements
to be done maybe 24 hours from now all
right all eyes are going to be on that
Union budget but Mr Bal chandran coming
to your portfolio now specifically let's
talk about the health segment your
growth has been roughly 21% this quarter
now we believe you have had new products
like Elevate where you've showcased
extensive use of artificial intelligence
for insurance products so what's your
take over there as well uh can we expect
more such Innovative products to drive
your growth what are your plans on new
product launches if
any so I think that's again a great
question if you ask us because retail
Health again has been a segment of
preferred Focus for ICA Lombard and
that's the reason we have been
continuously looking for as to how we
can create an experience for the
customer which is very very uh positive
and that's the reason maybe uh towards
late June early July we did come out
with this new health insurance Solutions
uh which is called Elevate keeping in
mind exactly what you rightly mentioned
in order to create a personal experience
for an IND individual consumer because
as you know because health insurance
impacts at an individual level every
customer he or she may have a preference
which is significantly varied and that
is exactly what this particular health
insurance solution does it creates a
personalized solution for an individual
consumer depending on what coverages
that he or she intends to take and
correspondingly what he or she expects
as an outcome in so far as the claim
experience is concerned and that is
significantly powered by AI because at
the back end we have create various
personas which will be able to kind of
identify an individual requirement and
possibly give a solution uh which will
kind of largely mirror the expectations
of that individual consumer rather than
trying to create something which kind of
works for people at
large okay that was uh thank you so much
Mr balandran for joining with us on ET
now